From the New York Times, I'm Rachel
Abrams and this is the daily.
In the last few years, GLP1 drugs like
Ompic and Zepbound have been radically
reshaping the lives of millions of
Americans.
They have the power to change everything
from our appetites and our health to the
clothes that we buy.
But they also have the power to affect
other parts of our lives. How we date,
how we see ourselves, even our closest
relationships.
Today, my colleague Lisa Miller tells
the story of how these drugs upended one
couple's marriage and how they dealt
with the fallout.
[Music]
[Applause]
It's Tuesday, October 7th.
[Music]
Lisa, I don't think it's an
understatement to say that we in 2025
are in the middle of this what feels
like kind of a weight loss revolution in
the United States. And of course, we're
talking about these drugs that
everybody's probably heard of. Ompic,
Wiggoi, Mongjaro.
I think most people know somebody who's
been transformed by them. Maybe a lot of
people themselves have actually had some
experience with them, but I would just
like to hear a little bit about what
interested you initially.
>> Yeah, it's a revolution in how we look.
It's a revolution in our health. It's
got gigantic potential to help people
who have not been able to be helped
before
>> and the data show that one in eight
Americans
>> has tried one of these drugs. So that's
a lot of millions of people, right? And
so it's creating all kinds of
conversations not just about how we feel
and our health but also how we look and
how that matters in the world. Like I
have a friend who takes the medicine and
he says, you know, if you are able to
eat just five French fries
>> and you used to not be able to eat just
five French fries and had to eat the
whole plate of French fries, it gives
you grounding in the idea that you can
control
things in your life that you didn't
think you could control. So if you're a
person who was completely helpless in
the face of a plate of French fries and
suddenly you get control of that, what
else can you control?
[Music]
Can you control
your gym going habits? Can you control
the way you relate to your children, the
way you talk to your boss? So my
question was like if your body has
changed so much just the shell you walk
around in and your mindset has changed
so much about what's possible for you.
Wouldn't that affect the way you relate
to everything and everyone in your life
including your most intimate
relationships?
And what really interested me was this
question of how the GLP-1 drugs affected
a marriage, especially when one partner
is on the drugs and the other partner
isn't.
How did you go about trying to find the
right people to talk to to to satisfy
that question?
>> Right. Well, we at the times have a
thing called a call out where you ask
the public a question and and that
question is posted on social media and
in the paper and all over the place. And
then we get responses to that question.
And the question was this, has a GLP-1
drug like Ompic and subsequent weight
loss changed your relationship?
>> And so I was, it was the week last year
between Christmas and New Year's and I
was like it was like presents. Um, and I
was getting all of these responses to
the call out and a lot of them were
really interesting, I just want to say.
And one jumped out at me. Should I just
tell you what it what he said? Okay.
Yeah, I have it.
>> He wrote, "I believe it has changed a
few things. Less alcohol consumption,
smaller meal portions, improved health
outcomes, increased awareness of food
and drink consumption.
But I believe GLP-1 has affected my
wife's libido, no interest in sex,
>> perhaps due in part to image issues,
also increased mood swings on her part.
And I thought there's a lot between the
lines here. First of all, a lot of
people wrote in about sex, but he was
very pointed about it. H like he's he's
ruminating on why
struggling with it.
And so I called them up. Can you hear
me? and I talked to both of them.
>> Let's talk about middle names and they
agreed to participate in the story as
long as I used their middle names.
>> Javier.
>> Javier. So he is Javier and she is Jean.
>> J E A N E.
>> Okay, that works. They live in New
England in sort of a nice suburb.
>> We celebrated our anniversary a few days
ago.
>> They had been married for 15 years. and
would you be open to a visit from me?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And it became a long relationship
>> invitation
>> in which I was probing and probing and
probing about how these medications were
changing the dynamics in their marriage.
>> So tell me more about that. How were the
drugs affecting their marriage?
>> Well, I think maybe it's helpful to talk
first about what their relationship was
like before the drugs. And it goes back
to high school.
>> Junior year is when I met her. So that
takes us to 1987.
>> They both grew up in Sacramento.
>> What did you notice about her? Like what
what made you like her?
>> Her personality, very outgoing, great
smile.
>> Well, I I thought he was cute. Um
>> he was a football player and also in the
band
>> team, so you know, he's an offensive
lineman. He's you fit but a big guy. and
>> which you know as a a woman is very
comforting you know when you when you
you hug someone like that you know just
feel safe
>> and so at that time in high school how
would you have described your own body
>> um I was overweight you know back then I
mean 17 years old fat
>> she was like in a bigger body and
excruciatingly self-conscious about that
Yeah. So, always felt awful, never felt
attractive.
>> And she would say that she became like a
super competent pleaser
on all the clubs doing all the things in
order to compensate for the way she felt
about her body. And he had a crush on
her. And they both told me this story
about how in high school there was this
band performance in town and he offered
to walk her to her car.
>> Right. So that's that's that was my
first attempt was, you know, well, let's
let me walk you out to your car and
then,
>> you know, kind of test the waters there.
>> And I said, "No, no, you know, I'm a
powerful woman. I don't need any man to
walk me to my car." Um, but I thought it
was very galant. And so
>> it was as though she couldn't believe
that he liked her in that way
>> because she was insecure. She was so
insecure about her body. M
>> you know there have been times in my
life where you know someone was actually
flirting with me or trying to come on to
me and I I just don't register the signs
because I feel so uncomfortable in my
own body
>> that I I feel like they must be bullying
me or you know teasing me or just being
mean.
So even though she had a crush on him
too, she wouldn't believe it.
>> So it sounds like basically even though
they might have liked each other or he
certainly liked her,
>> they did not get together in high
school.
>> They did not.
>> But they were close.
>> Yes. They were unrequited high school
sweethearts.
>> And they each married other people.
>> What happened was that um my first
marriage was coming to an end. My first
marriage had just ended
>> and then all of our friends were
reconnecting on Facebook.
>> Jean looked up Javier on Facebook.
>> Our 20-y year reunion was coming up that
fall
>> and I told her that it'd be great to
connect and have a cup of coffee.
>> They told me about their first date and
it just felt when they both described it
like finally, you know, they both had
this feeling of like
>> they knew. They knew
>> the cup of coffee ended up being a
dinner and some beers and then a ride up
to the skyline where you could see down
under the bay.
>> Um, and that's, you know, that's when
the kiss happened and
>> and I think things went pretty fast from
there. I think I I remember the first
night that we got together um that we we
we had, you know, we connected sexually
intimately
>> and they both told me about the first
time that they had sex.
>> I mean, knowing how should I say this?
um assuming that she may have
uh self-image issues, I was really uh
impressed and delighted that she had no
problem just robing
>> Mhm.
>> And before me,
>> the way he talked about it was just as
this unbelievably
magical,
uninhibited
interaction. it. She didn't say, "Don't
look at me," or "I'm ashamed at this,"
or, "The other," or, "My boobs are too
big," or, "My butt's too big," or,
>> "I don't like this role," whatever it
might be. There was never any talk of
that. So,
>> I I kind of thought that she was happy
in her body.
>> His point was that she was so
uninhibited about her body and that that
was so pleasing to him.
[Music]
and I'm running the story by the both of
them. And she was like, I don't exactly
remember it that way.
It wasn't that I felt
great about my body. I never felt good
about my body.
What was amazing about that night was
that I'd had this crush on him for 20
years, and here we finally were.
[Music]
Now, we know that they eventually get
together, right? They get married.
>> Yeah. They move to the east coast where
she gets big jobs in corporations. She's
the earner. You get the sense that they
fit each other's romantic fantasies and
they're extremely sexually attracted to
each other. It's a big part of their
identity as a couple. They have a child.
They settle into a life where they both
love food, they love restaurants, they
love wine, and they get a big wine
fridge in their dining room,
>> living the dream.
>> And they have friends down the street,
and they have these game nights where
they last like all night. And they have
this kind of happy suburban
>> fun. They seem they seem like fun
people. They enjoy living life with
gusto. Totally. They're doers, you know,
they like to embibe in life. But
throughout this, you know, Jean
struggled with her weight.
>> I was obese. Um, from a BMI perspective
>> after she had her baby. She was heavy.
She hated it. She had postpartum
depression. She
could not lose the weight. She did not
feel good about that. her self-image,
her sense of her body was not happy.
>> Mhm. And she would say she's gained and
lost 70 lbs multiple times in her life,
and it just felt like an endless
struggle to her. Did she tell you why
she was having so much trouble keeping
the weight off? You know, she talked
about
>> to food noise. Yeah, food noise to me
feels like a constant need to eat. I
don't feel hungry. I don't feel full.
So, I don't have those physiological
triggers to know when to eat. and the
feeling of self-loathing that she
describes of not being able to control
that like it's a failure of will
>> and then being embarrassed about the
food that I was eating. So sneaking food
um you know if when I was home by myself
having a pint of ice cream because I
could and I could hide it just
>> eventually this leads to health issues.
>> Um I do have um other chronic conditions
that it developed over time. I had
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
>> and she says to her doctor, "How about
one of these GLP-1 drugs?"
and he wrote the script.
>> And can you just remind us, Lisa, how do
these drugs actually work? Well, it they
work by reducing your feeling of being
hungry. And because of that, people lose
a ton of weight really fast. And people
who have been dieting their whole lives
and struggling with their weight are
able to keep their weight off as long as
they're on the drugs. And you know, she
starts losing a lot of weight really
fast. their clothing, her clothing was
started, you know, fit a lot looser,
much more,
>> you know, 10 lb, 20 lb.
>> She used to not wear jeans, for example,
because she wouldn't be able to fit in
them comfortably. Um, she was always
wearing the leggings type of clothing.
>> They both noticed it.
>> So, she slowly trans transitioned from
the yoga pants to the, you know, to the
jeans,
>> not eating that much. And I feel for the
first time in my life like this may be
it. Like I may be able to keep this
weight off because I've addressed the
food noise. The food noise that had been
tormenting her is gone. She feels like
it's like a miracle. Really?
>> Wow. So this is just a really dramatic,
very quick shift.
>> Yes. I mean she lost 60 lb inside of 8
months.
And then, you know, she notices that
like people start treating her
differently.
>> Yeah. So, um, flying home on a trip, uh,
work trip, and I was in the window seat,
and
>> she told me this story about she travels
a lot for work, and she was on a flight
home from Chicago, and she was sitting
in the window seat,
>> and um, a guy sat in the middle seat and
said, "Oh, I'm so glad I'm sitting next
to a small person." you know, he said,
you know, sometimes you're in the middle
seat and you're crowded between two big
people and it's really uncomfortable.
And so, on the one hand, I'm like, "Yay,
I'm a small person." But on the other
hand, you really pissed off because when
people looked at me before or sat next
to me on the plane before, were they
thinking these things the whole time
where I'm trying to have a nice
conversation and all that's in their
head is I'm stuck next to this fat
person?
>> She was so furious on behalf of her
bigger self.
>> It's like in this moment she's almost
caught between her old self and her new
self. offending her old self as she's
like happy for her new self. It's really
an unbelievable moment of
transformation.
>> Well, and even at work,
>> you know, at work, she felt this way.
She's a successful professional. She's
always been a successful professional.
>> But I feel like the marketing team is
putting me out there more. And now
suddenly at work she's getting these
outward facing opportunities where she's
being put forward as a talking head to
talk to the media for example or she's
being put forward to talk to the board
in a way that she hadn't been before.
>> But I feel like there's this different
perception of me. I'm the same person.
I'm just 60 lbs lighter.
Now, this is a thing that others have
said too about these drugs that once the
world starts, you know, approving of
you, and I've got air quotes up here,
the doors open. And a lot of the people
I talk to for this story talk about the
opportunities that get presented to
them, promotions
and dates. You have access to partners
that you didn't have access to before.
And you can do things physically with
your body that you couldn't do before. I
talked to one guy who started running
marathons all of a sudden.
>> Wow. And if you're married, it presents
a whole world of things that you have to
suddenly start figuring out that may
have been latent or unspoken.
Or the agreement that you made when you
got together has to be renegotiated in
some way that you didn't anticipate at
all.
And that was definitely true for Jean
and Javier.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Lisa, I'm so curious how these huge
changes that Gene is going through both
physically and emotionally are affecting
her relationship with Javier.
>> I mean, one of the first things that
happened was that she totally lost her
appetite for alcohol.
And that's not unusual. People on these
medications frequently lose their
appetite for alcohol. So much so that
researchers are investigating whether
GLP1s are a good treatment for alcohol
abuse, addiction, other kinds of
compulsive behaviors.
And for Jean, the loss of appetite just
changed
her whole approach to having fun with
her husband. I mean, no longer could
they sit on the couch and unccork a
bottle of wine at the end of the day or
go to the local brew pub and try out the
new beer. None of it felt good to her
anymore.
>> We go over to a friend's house and we'll
have a game night or something like
that. I mean, we'll still go. I just
won't drink. Mhm.
>> And
that's fine.
>> Yeah. But it was also just that her like
appetite for that kind of life
>> where you're going out and you're
hanging with friends and you're staying
up late and everybody's drinking.
Those appetites, they had limits as
well.
>> I would have liked to get home earlier
before anyway. And now I can say I'm not
drinking. I would like to be home. I you
know I and I in fact
>> she had an introverted side that hadn't
been able to express herself because she
was so busy being a pleaser extrovert
because she was in a bigger body and she
wanted people to like her.
>> I am not as much of a night owl as my
husband is and I like to read my Kindle
a little bit before I go to sleep at
night and I just don't do well the next
day if I'm out really late. Once she was
in a smaller body, she could assert
herself and say like, "Actually, I like
being at home." But she's also telling
Javier she doesn't want to do the things
that he thought that she loved
>> and that they loved together.
>> They love together, right?
>> That was like the fabric of the fun that
they had always had together. How does
he respond to all this? How does he
>> He does not like it.
>> No, no. I like going with the flow. I
mean living in a moment and enjoying you
know whatever's going on the in social
aspects or social social events. Yeah I
>> he was like no this is not how we are.
We are the people who do these things.
>> I think he misses his drinking buddy the
person who is going to stay out late.
>> It sounds like the lifestyle stuff led
to a lot of tension more than tension. I
mean, I think they had a really, really,
really hard time and
>> when I met them, they were fighting a
lot.
>> Um, before it was a conversation and you
know, and now it's a fight and one of us
is going to walk away angry. Um, because
we're not seeing eye to eye on something
>> and their fights could be loud and
>> ugly. So, I started really um wondering
who I was with. I mean this person that
I've been with for you know better part
of 15 years really started to take a
change maybe
>> you know Javier said to me you know we
go to from 0 to 60 in like seconds
>> bottom line is it became very confusing
to me as far as as far as how to manage
our relationship. I would even comment
to her and say you know I need I don't
recognize you I need a road map. I need
it's like I need a road map to figure
out you know what what's within bounds
and what's out of bounds. I I don't feel
like I can be myself with you the way I
used to be because I don't want to
offend you or I don't want to make you
feel badly because things have changed a
lot.
>> And one of the biggest things that
changed is that they completely stopped
having sex. When I met them, they hadn't
had sex since she started taking the
drugs, which was almost a year. And
Javier told me that he really missed it
and he missed her and he missed her
body.
>> I used to love
feeling her body, her big body next to
me in bed, the softness uh of her body,
you know, the extra tummy and the extra
booty, you know, next to
>> They both talk about the loss of her
butt.
>> Are there things you miss about your
previous body?
It's my butt.
>> They both lovedress her butt. Um, so I I
missed that
>> that voluuptuousness.
Um, and and and I became and that was an
attraction early on in our relationship
to me anyways. Uh, being able to, you
know, lean up next to her and feel her,
for lack of a better word, draping over
me or onto me. um that's no longer an
option. Now it's it's cuddling and it's
cuddling as tight and closely as we can
or as I can. Um and that's that's the
extent of the intimacy.
I I'm at a loss for why there's no
physical intimacy
>> or hasn't been any. this like physical
connection that they had has completely
changed into something else and neither
one of them knows exactly
how to
find it again.
>> But for you the the voluuptuousness was
erotic.
>> It was erotic. It was comforting. It was
nice. Uh it was, you know, sensual.
Uh, and that's no longer the case. And
and this new body
I haven't really been able to touch or
or explore or anything like that.
>> It's not as accessible to you.
>> It's not. No.
[Music]
>> Why haven't they had sex? Like, was that
just another appetite that the drugs
reduced? I mean, that's what Javier's
theory was is. Maybe there's some
evidence that these medications decrease
sex drive,
>> but there's more that they increase it.
And Jean has different theories of the
case. She's gone through menopause.
She's been on anti-depressants for a
really long time. And both of those
things are known to suppress sex drive.
But I think there's actually something
bigger at work here.
>> I haven't said this to him.
I just didn't say no before.
>> Mhm.
>> So,
>> she started to be able to draw
boundaries between doing things for
other people because they want them and
being able to articulate what she wants
and she doesn't want to have sex. And
she's saying so in her marriage to her
husband.
>> I'm setting the boundaries. I don't want
to have sex, but before I would.
>> Mhm.
>> Because I felt like it was my
responsibility.
>> That is empowering for her in some way.
God, I can totally see why making an
intense physical and emotional change
could lead somebody like Jean to need
to, if nothing else, take a break from
having sex. But I can imagine if you are
the person's partner that's suddenly
finding out that like the person that
you shared a really active pleasing sex
life with doesn't want it or doesn't
like it. I can imagine that that's
totally devastating. Did she tell him
that that's how she felt?
>> I mean he could tell
but he very much wants to be her loving
partner.
>> Mhm. And what does that mean in the
context of like not having sex when you
want sex? Well, they were both working
on this in therapy individually and
together.
>> For example, um we discussed with my
therapist and she provided a nice a link
that has to do with intimate touch.
>> And Javier's therapist gave him an
exercise that was meant to help couples
who aren't having sex or who want to get
over some hurdle in order to have sex.
you there's this three steps or three
phases
>> and the first stage is you know one
partner lies down fully clothed and the
other partner touches him her everywhere
except the erogynous zones and the
partner who's clothed and lying down
says what they do and don't like
>> that's out of bounds or that makes me
ticklish or don't touch me there or they
can say I like that or you know
>> and they did it one time
>> and Javier said he enjoyed it very much
But when he asked her did she want to do
it again, she said no. They didn't even
get past the the first phase of the
exercise.
>> I want to solve this problem because
it's difficult for a married couple not
to have that physical intimacy.
>> Um
>> but also you have to share this new body
with him when you haven't totally gotten
comfortable in it yourself.
>> Yeah.
>> Does that resonate with you or
>> Yes, it does.
I have never felt comfortable when he
has made a positive comment about my
physical appearance.
I feel more entitled to that praise now,
but still trying to come to terms with
being in a smaller body. And what does
that mean?
>> Yeah.
>> For us.
>> Other than not being embarrassed on his
behalf, you know, he's not married to a
fat woman anymore.
[Music]
It sounds like the drugs kind of
unearthed something. They unearthed some
kind of dynamic in their sex life that
Gene had only been maybe vaguely aware
of, but certainly had not been in a
position to act on before she felt
differently about herself. Yes, I think
that's true. I think they were both
completely blindsided by that. I didn't
see, you know, for being ignorant or
naive that there were many fundamental
differences. We we seem to enjoy
everything, the food, the drinking, the
socializing, the active lifestyles. Um,
being parents,
I felt that we were always on the same
page and going on, you know, we're on
the same,
>> we weren't two ships in the night
crossing paths. We were
>> one
>> one ship.
>> You know, you all get into our
relationships
with these unstated
contracts
that are not totally happy compromises
sometimes.
And then something like this happens and
you have to like ventilate that contract
and say, "Okay, like this is not what I
want." and they're doing that.
>> So, you're empowered in a way to take up
space to say what you want.
And that forces you to have to
figure out what you want.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Beyond just like I want to leave the
party at 10:00, you know, that's in a
way that's easy. Like do I want to have
a sexual relationship with my husband?
Do I want to leave my corporate job? Do
I wanna like like these are much bigger
questions?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, and kind of sad that
at 53 that I'm starting to have those
thoughts. The aren't those the kinds of
things that most people think about when
they've graduated from school, right? I
just I'm the good girl and I do what
what's expected.
>> Mhm. In a certain body. And now you have
>> in a certain body. Yeah.
[Music]
>> I know this is just one couple and one
anecdote, but I am really curious if you
had any big takeaways for how these
drugs could affect relationships.
I mean, one psychotherapist said to me,
you know, romantic partnerships,
marriages
are invested in stability and everything
staying the same.
And so we have books about what happens
when you're going through the death of a
parent or when you move or when you have
a baby. Like these are gigantic life
changes. But we haven't spoken about
what happens when one partner's body
completely changes and their feelings
about their body completely change. But
I talked to a lot of couples and what I
concluded after speaking to them was
that the couples that seemed to manage
it best
were couples who weren't rigid in their
expectations of one another.
>> What do you mean?
>> What I mean is
you can't get too committed to like we
are the people who have
dinner. We are the Okay. I wasn't sure
what you were going to say.
>> You can't be too committed to like, I
make this lasagna and he loves to eat
it.
>> We have two margaritas on Fridays with
the so and so's. Those kinds of rituals
which are very reliable and very
defining for couples, especially if
you've been together for a really long
time. All of that gets renovated with
one person on a weight loss drug. And if
a couple can say like it's okay like
still the same person we'll do something
else we'll eat less lasagna. I I believe
Lisa what you were describing is
flexibility in relationships.
>> Flexibility in relationships which is
really really hard.
>> All right. So, how have you been? How
was
>> I will say that I spoke to Javier and
Jean again recently
>> and I noticed a softness between them,
>> a level of empathy and understanding
>> that I hadn't seen before.
>> It's not bad. It's not toxic. It's not
horrific. It's harmonious, but there's
still times of tension, but then that's
normal with relationships. Um, how would
you describe it? Kind of like a dance,
>> I think. Um, well, not as anxious and
angry as we had been
>> when I met them. They
said that they had agreed to be
together,
>> but I felt that that was at stake.
It's like
>> And this most recent time when I met
them, I felt that they were bought into
that agreement.
>> Yeah. And what about the physical stuff?
I have to ask.
>> Still the same.
>> Yeah.
>> But they're still not having sex.
>> And my reaction to that has been to be
patient and to not be pushing it. So
there's not much more I can do. I mean,
that isn't to say it sucks
and I miss that
and I wonder if it'll ever come back.
>> Is there anything you want to say more?
>> I still feel very strongly that this is
the one of the best things that I've
done for myself.
This is it. You know, I I have lost the
weight and I will maintain this for
life. And
I'm just so grateful.
[Music]
>> Lisa, thank you so much. It's such a
pleasure to talk to you.
>> I really enjoyed it, too. Thank you,
Rachel.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know.
The Supreme Court declined to hear an
appeal for Galileain Maxwell, the
longtime Jeffrey Epstein associate who
was convicted of charges relating to
enabling his crimes.
The decision was Maxwell's last chance
to get clemency from the courts. And now
her only option for an early release
from prison is likely a pardon from
President Trump.
And on Monday, a federal judge declined
to block federal troops from heading to
Chicago, setting up a fight between
Illinois and the federal government. The
state has sued the Trump administration,
claiming that it's creating chaotic and
unsafe conditions for residents and
violating the US Constitution.
We'll be covering the efforts by
President Trump to send troops to
Chicago and other cities on our show
tomorrow.
Today's episode was produced by Nina
Feldman with help from Anna Foley. It
was edited by Ben Calhoun and Lindseay
Garrison with help from Patricia
Willins. Contains music by Marian
Lozano, Dan Powell, Pat McCusker, Diane
Wong, and Leah Shaw Deeron, and was
engineered by Chris Wood.
[Music]
That's it for the daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.
[Music]